# CS305-Software-Security

##Briefly summarize your client, Artemis Financial, and their software requirements. Who was the client? What issue did they want you to address?
Artemis Financial was a finance consulting company trying protect their RESTful web application by implementing modern security practices and software.

##What did you do particularly well in identifying their software security vulnerabilities? Why is it important to code securely? What value does software security add to a company’s overall wellbeing?
I think I did fairly well in identifying the client's security needs. Part of finding vulnerabilities is understanding that a program isn't going to be attacked form just one angle, so we also need to perform our vulnerability analysis from multiple perspectives. For example, yes you can run a built in maven test, but you should also go through the code line by line to make sure there is nothing within that causes information security issues. It is important to code securely from the beginnning of the project and have security in mind throughout the whole design because it's a lot easier to fix small holes in an already exisitng net than trying to craft a net around an existing product. If you are coding securely throughout the entire project you end up with an overall more secure deliverable at the end. Software security is curcial to all companies trying to compete in today's world. If your system isn't secure not only are you vulnerable for attacks, but when the attacks occur they are much more severe. ALso, with how consumers have begun depending on the reputation of a company more and more, the lose of resepct should an attack occur could be the downfall of the entire company.

##What about the process of working through the vulnerability assessment did you find challenging or helpful?
I think the hardest part of the project at first was understanding just what a false positive in a dependency check is. It was never really explained well in the course what we were looking for. It took quite a few hours jumping down rabbit holes on various forums to find out the best way to double check if a dependency flag is something to be concerned about, or if it's a false positive that needs to be supressed for now.

##How did you approach the need to increase layers of security? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to assess vulnerabilities and determine mitigation techniques? How did you ensure the code and software application were functional and secure? After refactoring code, how did you check to see whether you introduced new vulnerabilities?
First, I took a dependency check at the beginning of the assignment before any code had be touched and saved this in a seperate location to be referenced back to at the end. I then refactored my code and took another dependency check to see if anything had changed. If it hadn't I determined that no new dependency vulnerabilities had been introduced to the system. I then went through my code line by line and asked myself, if I was a third party accessing this, is there anything in here that I probably shouldn't know. With this mind set I was then able to determine other vulnerabilites that might exist in the system and would need to be corrected at a future date.

##What resources, tools, or coding practices did you employ that you might find helpful in future assignments or tasks?
I think the Maven dependecy checking tool will be something I use for any porject going forward. Having that tool available to double check that libraries I'm referencing are not opening back doors for hackers to gain access was amazing once i learned how to actual read the reports generated.

##Employers sometimes ask for examples of work that you have successfully completed to demonstrate your skills, knowledge, and experience. What from this particular assignment might you want to showcase to a future employer?
I think I would showcase the work done in the refactored code from Project 2. It was the culmination of practicing secure coding throughout the semester. However, I would partner it with my report for Project 2 because there are still potential vulnerabilities present in the code simply because I had to work within the bounds of the project given to us.
